my name is Andrew I work at textile and
I'm going to talk to you about a
technology that's come up a couple times
called the power gate just a little bit
about textile so we're a small team of
five people myself and Aaron are going
to present to you today but I wanted to
make sure to give a shout out to the
other the other team members especially
Ignacio who's really let a lot of the
work on the power gate with us as
support and and so just want to make
sure that I gave him a shout out but you
can find all our work on on github as
well so you can see everything there and
how people are contributing so today's
talk it so you want to plug file coin
into your architecture so maybe you want
to drop it into an existing system as an
API or maybe you want to run file coin
in a stateful way that's smart about
your needs or maybe you want to make
your files that you're storing on file
coin available over IP FS perhaps you
want to manage multiple addresses with
different needs maybe you want to track
your storage deals over time so that you
can automatically repair them if they
break or you can renew them if the deals
are going to expire soon and you still
want that data to persist on file coin
and so if any of those resonate with you
or you're interested in those you're at
the right talk and and so that's where
the power gate really comes in so the
one liner for the power gate that I've
been using is that it's an API driven
solution for the developers to deploy a
multi-tiered storage system in their
applications and services and
multi-tiered here is really getting at
storage and file coin and availability
on the ipfs network and like all the
things that textile is building there's
kind of two properties worth noting one
actually really related to something
very cool Juan talked about earlier with
threads we're really building this stuff
for you to use so it's open source and
we really want you to get in there break
it apart see if it fills your needs let
us know how we can build it differently
or collaborate with us to build it
differently so keep that in mind as I'm
sharing this with with you and then the
other thing is that we really focus on
trying to make these things feel
familiar and simple to use and so
hopefully you'll get that if you
working with the power gate it's
obviously earlier so things will be
rough if you get in there tomorrow and
start playing with it which I definitely
still encourage but it will get more and
more smooth as we approach main net just
a few feature highlights of the power
gate before we dive into things today's
talk we're going to give Aaron's going
to give a live demo of some of the api's
working in the CLI and so we'll get
pretty technical here but some feature
highlights the power gate is really
meant to bridge this file coin storage
and ipfs availability but it brings some
other really great features that system
builders are going to want things like
being able to create deals repair deals
where new deals expire deals
it's stateful and long debt and
long-term monitoring of these deals you
can do things like have users that own
addresses in the system and they can be
sandboxed and have their own storage
deals that they're creating that are
independent of everybody else in your
system and then it also tracks the
network in a long-term way so that it
can build up reputations and information
about miners so that your deals can be
made smartly against the or
intelligently against the network so for
example I saw the question from Ruben I
believe about locations and filtering of
miners and so this is a great place
where it does it so the power gate will
track more than just the location of
miners but also how long they've been on
the network and what kind of deals
they're making and so you can actually
create deals based on filtering you can
also set up some configurations for how
you want your deals to be made and then
just always make them automatically with
those configurations and we'll talk a
lot about the configurations here so
power gate is really designed to be
integrated into your existing systems
and to run existing applications and
pass on the benefits of file coin to
your users through IP FS and through
your own api's and so there's a few
really interesting things that emerge
from using the power gate that I thought
I wanted to point out up front so that
you can keep them in your mind one it
really extends file coin and ipfs
networks in a way that you can build
some really interesting configurations
applications where data is being served
over the ipfs Network and the power gate
remains maintains that data in a
persistent long-term way on file coin
and I'll share a bit more about this
going forward but you can configure how
you want that caching work to work so
that you can say I want data on the
network but if it ever drops below what
I think is an acceptable threshold of
availability on the network and that's
measured in time to retrieve it you can
have the power gate basically rebuff
that that data on the network so that
it's there and available again for your
users or your application and this is
this is very very exciting for sort of
this mixed network user so with that
with that all in mind let's get
technical so the power gate is right now
built on a few different pieces of
technology it when you when you run the
power gate so you're gonna see this
little animation here this is actually
just running the docker eyes version of
the power gate which will spin up the
power gate technology as well as a lotus
node which is a go implementation of the
file coin specification as well as an IP
FS node in the future we imagine being
able to swap in other file coin
implementations right now we've been
focused on Lotus though and this just
kind of shows how easy it is to start
running and building some really cool
things that are actually happening here
though Lotus embeds or runs an embedded
dev net and in this case it stands up a
mock minor so that you can actually test
and deploy test and integrate the api's
of the power gate without always having
to go to the test net or in the future
the main net you can run a very
simplified and fast local version of the
network so that you can see how the API
is work you can test the flow of data
and in the future a lot of this will be
much more bring your own notes and so
that that's really important for people
like pinning services that probably are
that definitely already have their own
IP FS nodes and their own IP FS networks
and we'll be thinking through ways to
attach file coin to their existing IP FS
api's
so let's talk a little bit more about
what's happening here
I mentioned that it spins up the Lotus
note in the ipfs node and one already
made that analogy to the pinning as a
term from memory use so that's great
that's a perfect analogy for how we've
been thinking about the multi-tiered
storage being deployed using the power
gate where you use ipfs as your hot
storage your fast layer where data is
available to the network broadly and you
use file coin for persistence your cold
storage making sure that data exists and
then you connect it through some
automated processes that you can
actually control and configure right now
we've focused on these two layers
there's a lot of room for these layers
to expand as well and I'll talk a little
bit about that as well
layers layers beyond hot and layers
between hot and cold and so keep that in
mind as well and then all of this is
actually wrapped up in widely supported
G RPC API and the thing that's nice
about that API approach is it makes it a
pretty standard way to attach to this
API from different platforms and
languages so you can build your own
clients you can build your own wrappers
your own libraries and and we'll show
you some of that and so one example of
an application that's attaching to that
API is our CLI and so when you run the
binary client for the power gate it's
really built for the system
administrator or the power user or a
developer I'm coming to try to build
this stuff and test it out
but that CLI is actually hitting that G
RPC API and it will make this all feel
very simple but don't be fooled this is
pretty this is pretty powerful and meant
to really run inside of a system not
necessarily run inside of a CLI and so
the power gate also works for you so it
monitors deals for expiration and it
auto renews them is a good example of
that it will auto repair your files so
you can actually have storage
configurations with replication and then
auto repair nodes or one of those
replicas if things go wrong
automatically you could have one in one
too many
sandbox addresses and we'll talk about
that and like I mentioned already you
can kind of track the long-term state of
the network and use that to your
advantage so you can make smarter deals
so the the surface area of API is in
power gate is pretty is pretty broad and
expansive and it actually brings a lot
of the api's that are already available
in Lotus and and passes them through and
that makes them available to you but one
thing sort of like the the area that's
going to be of most interest I think to
people trying to deploy this in systems
is an area called the ffs the ffs is the
it's short for the file coin file coin
file system and and this is a really
important piece of the power gate sort
of stack so the file coin file system
every each power gate can have one to
many file coin FF asses and every F of s
has an address it can actually manage
multiple addresses and this is where the
sandbox thing happens so if say you
wanted to run the power gate behind an
application that you wanted to give
every user an address on file coins so
that they could manage their own
configuration for how storage is
happening they could have their own
account balances you could actually just
create them an ffs and so every ffs is
going to have its own address it's going
to have its own configurations to manage
and it's going to have its own set of
deals on net on the network and also
it's going to have its own set of data
that's available on IP FS and power gate
will manage all those different ffs
instances and keep them alive and keep
their data available in your API s so I
mentioned that the FS has a
configuration for how it's doing deals
and we're going to talk more about the
configuration itself but the that's just
the default configuration and if you
create if you if you store new data in
the power gate you can actually override
the default configuration and have a
different configuration for every files
keep that in mind as I sort of show you
this going forward that every storage
every file storage request that you make
to the power gate you can send it your
new
configuration and actually you can
override those configurations so let's
talk about what it what I mean by config
I said this a bunch of times so I
already mentioned that we break this up
into the hot storage in the cold storage
we can look right here at the config
itself and look at what's happening in
the config that's controlling what's
going to happen in the in the two layers
of storage so in this case this is the
fault storage config for my ffs like I
said I could override this for any new
file that I want to store with the power
gate but by default you can see a few
things one it's saying that I want this
data to just be available on the hot
network and then I'm gonna actually skip
in the next two because they're
important but let me jump right down to
the cold storage so cold storage these
are all the controlling configurations
for the file coin storage and so you can
see things like replication factor the
default is one deal duration it has a
default you can have some blacklist of
miners you can have country codes and
you can actually set whether you want
this file to renew when the deal is is
expiring so another really interesting
here thing here for building this into
applications is you want this data to be
available on ipfs potentially you could
actually shut either these layers off so
you could run run the power gate and
just be exposing ipfs which is and then
later you could actually turn on file
coin for all those all that data that's
actually being pinned ipfs but jumping
back up to the IP FS setting these next
two are very interesting so the IP FS
add timeout this is a really neat
configuration that looks simple but what
actually happens is it says if a request
comes in for a file that I'm storing I'm
not going to jump if I don't have it in
my hot lair I'm not going to jump to
file coin to pull it back out
I actually am gonna wait some time to
see if I can get it from the network and
in this case the default is to wait for
30 seconds and so in that way you can
actually let the network provide you
data at this hot hot layer before you go
back to file coin to create a new
retrieval deal and this is where these
really interesting Network
configurations come up
and that's where this allow unfreeze
configuration comes in so allow unfreeze
means it's if you only have it in the
coat layer do you want this ffs to
automatically create a retrieval deal
pull it back out of the cold
cold layer and get it into the hot layer
and so that sort of automation and
simplicity lets your API just run and
you can then do a lot of things with
your data so hot and cold and the config
to manage hot and cold is really
powerful and it lets you do a lot of
things even just at the coat layer
managing your renewal settings managing
your country settings and the last thing
I didn't mention here is in this case
there's only one CID in this ffs so here
you would have a list of all the
different files that were being
maintained in this ffs so I already
talked about the add timeout but that's
this is a really interesting property
and is it really these are really like
is a perfect example of a place that we
think is really important and that we
want to build out and so we'd love your
feedback on these things and how you're
imagining building it in your system so
we can get that just right but what we
are imagining is being able to build
applications that actually have
configurations like this where ipfs
nodes that are outside of the power gate
can also be maintaining data and the
power gate just ensures that that data
will be persisted in file coin and
available on the network if any of those
other nodes ever go away and that's and
that's a really that's like a really
neat capability that I think a lot of
applications can build around and and I
mentioned already that these are just
the two layers that are in the
configuration already and this is an
area that we'd love your feedback as you
start looking at this and trying to
build with it
are there other other layers of
configuration that would be helpful to
standardize here so what's hotter than
hot and this would be thinking about
perhaps you're running a pending service
where you have globally distributed
nodes and you want to be able to smart
intelligently configure how this data
gets pushed out to those different nodes
and maybe there's layers in between as
well one other really interesting thing
that we haven't spent much time
developing but I think it's it's
available in here and worth exploring
is that in the early
I'll coin the power gate might actually
be able to help serve things like
locally available data so by knowing
which data is stored in the by the power
gate you can take deals to retrieve that
data and pass those deals off to two
nodes in other regions so they can
actually do the retrieval locally to the
user requesting the data get it into
local ipfs nodes but only only have to
run one one power day in your system and
that's the sort of configuration that is
just it's just on our mind but we'd love
to know how you're imagining deploying
this stuff so that we can get that just
right so hopefully that's enough kind of
early information to get you really
interested to see how this thing works
and think about dropping it into your
applications and so with that I'm going
to pass this over to Aaron to give a
little demo but so yeah I'm Aaron I've
been working on power gate with Ignacio
quite a bit recently it's been really
really fun and exciting project and I'm
excited to show you guys what we've been
working on with this demo today so first
thing I'm gonna do is like Andrew was
talking about all of the it's kind of
getting up and running can be easily
done with our docker images that come in
our repo so I'm gonna go ahead and start
up embedded test net it's just running
locally on my computer with one miner so
we can run the CLI against it I'm gonna
filter out a bunch of extra lotus logs
and just so we can just see the power
gate logs that are are happening
happening here so that you start it up
and then over on the left hand side and
we'll start using the CLI that's just
simply called POW you can see here from
the documentation there's a lot going on
a lot of the the commands here you can
you're free to use them but the main one
like Andrew was saying is ffs in fact
the logic within the ffs command
is really using like a lot of the other
modules that are exposed here but to
give you an example like of some of them
like if I say palnet piers I'll get a
list of piers on the network and of
course since we're just running the
local dev net it's just my single minor
here yeah and there's other commands
available to query file coin asks and
current deals and the health of the node
and miners on the network we build some
indexes that are that don't exist
necessarily like within the file coin
blockchain or anything but we're
indexing data and building reputation
index slashing index and the index of
miners where we add metadata like miner
location and other things but yeah so
today we're gonna focus though on the
ffs command so ffs on its own is there's
a lot going on here but the first thing
we need to do in order to start
interacting with an ffs is create an
instance for ourselves so to do that I'm
gonna run ffs
I'm sorry pal ffs create okay and I get
a auth token back from power gate and we
need to send that off token along with
every command we run so it can identify
us and in it maps to our instance of ffs
I saw a question earlier about whether
or not this thing is a JWT I think today
it's not it's just some generic token
but we're actually in the process right
now of adding different authorization
levels for clients so there can be like
some commands that are only available to
like admins and others that are only
available to other users so I'm guessing
with that change we'll have to use
something like Jada cuties so here we go
I'm going to just export an environment
variable called token and set my off
token there and that will ensure the
auth token a simple loan with every
command okay so back to the
documentation here just to do a quick
example of one of the other commands
let's create a new address using the
adders sub command here so if I say pow
ffff Heather's new and I give it a name
my address okay so now we've created a
new wallet address that is owned by my
ffs instance in and secured with that
auth token that's associated with my ffs
instance if I say info this will return
some general information about the ffs
instance and you can see the initial
wallet address that existed and then the
new one that I just created and we're
funding as well that's by default with
some amount of fill there but okay let's
skip to actually storing storing data in
this directory and I just had this
little index.html file and we're going
to store this thing in file coin and
then we're going to pull it down from
file coin onto the ipfs network just see
how this all works so this is HTML file
here locally on my computer then we'll
go back here and like Andrew was talking
about storage in power gate is all
managed by configuration so if I want to
view the default configuration the all
data will be stored with if I don't
provide an override I can type ffs
config default and that's going to print
our default storage configuration
similar to the one-hander was showing
where hot and cold storage are enabled
by default with some sensible default
settings let's save this JSON object to
a file here so we can modify it I don't
want to just do any default storage I
want to actually do some custom storage
here so first thing I'll do is disable
the hot ipfs storage and we could just
look at some of the other things that we
could configure here like in cold
storage replication factor is really
interesting power gate will actually
take care of storing your data in
however many miners you specify here the
deal duration how long it will last if
there are any miners you definitely
don't want to be storing data with you
can specify them in an array here other
excluded miners
same thing if there are miners you
prefer to use you can specify their IDs
here and power gate will give those
miners preference country codes if you
know there's geographic areas that you
prefer to store your data you specify
them and know right here and then renew
power gate will automatically renew any
deals that are close to expiring and you
could specify how close to expiring you
want the renew to happen here at the
threshold and then the adder here is the
the wallet address I want to use before
the deal and then repairable is kind of
you know on the level of hot and cold
but if if it applies to both hot and
cold but you've power gate detects that
the storage configuration is no longer
being fulfilled by ipfs and or file coin
it will do whatever it can to
automatically repair that so I'm going
to go ahead and run a couple commands to
add the data to power gate and while
we're waiting
the job to execute I'll explain exactly
what I just did because it'll take a
minute so give me a second here okay so
what I just did here first of all we had
to add the data just to the cache kind
of on our ipfs node that is running
alongside a Power Gate Way power gate
works in order to add data to power gate
you just add by CC ID so that's the ID
doesn't need to be pin necessarily but
it just has to be available somewhere on
the ipfs network so just to ensure that
was true I used this little helper
come and we have called add too hot and
I and I provide path to the file and get
the CID back next thing I did was
actually pushed the new storage
configuration for the CID that exists on
the ipfs network I've provided this
watch flag and watch tells the CLI to do
this thing here where it kind of blocks
and shows the job status which just
succeeded now so we know it's done
since we didn't want to use the default
storage configuration right I provide
that C flag with the path to our file
that holds that custom configu want to
use you could also pipe the JSON into
this command and standard in you want to
that also works and then of course the
CID of our data and so we we pushed it
and then we were watching the job status
we saw it progress I don't know you
could have seen some information in the
log here on the right as well but now
it's successful lead story so let's run
another command ffs show and then
provide the CID and that's going to give
us the current storage state for that
CID there's a job ID that executed it
our data CID the time stamp that this
happened our hot storage information
which I can tell you this is a little
misleading but I can tell you this is
actually kind of like the disabled state
there is no hot storage happening this
time stamp is just some default empty
timestamp so that's consistent with our
config our cold config here for file
Coyne you actually see our list of
proposals so these are the actual
storage deals that were executed on our
test net with our miner here the least
with the epoch in which the deal became
active our deal duration yep so you can
see the state of our deal now I'll show
you another cool command over here I
need to export my token again okay so
pow ffs log and CID that's the wrong one
give me a second
there we go okay so the log command will
basically watch a stream of log events
that we pay API provides we're basically
any change to the CID there will be old
some log output that we can see updates
to here so back so keep an eye out over
here for we're going to make a change
over on the left hand side so let's go
ahead and edit our configuration file
and since we were previously just
storing data in file Corinne
now that's make that data available for
sure now on the ipfs network so I enable
the hot storage I'm gonna set allow
unfreeze to true just to explain this
once more I know Andrew hinted at it or
you didn't intend he explained it well
but it's really really cool so what
we're saying here is I want to make this
data available to see idea available on
ipfs I'm willing to run a retrieval deal
to get it from file point if I have to
but let's see if we can get it from the
ipfs network for free and we'll wait 30
seconds trying to do that and only if we
can't will we run a retrieval deal from
file coin and pay the fill that we need
to pay in order to get it on the ipfs
network and we'll leave all our old
configuration the same now I'm going to
run that same push command again but
this time I just need to specify
override flag just because by default
power gate won't let you override right
like an existing storage configuration
without explicitly saying you know
that's what you're doing and you want to
do it so we provide over override flag
there okay so that happened quite
quickly probably because power gate was
able to find that CID cached still like
on our local IP of us know there on the
network or whatever and you can see
some long output over here on the
right-hand side now let's run Tao FS
show and our CID again and now we see
the updated storage information for that
CID has changed we now have a real hot
storage configuration here enabled
truths file size and a valid created
timestamp and nothing changed about our
cold storage but if we were running on a
on the test net or on the main net many
miners we could we could have added more
replication factor or country codes or
whatever to our cold storage and that
would be reflected here
let's see okay and we can we can go over
here now and this is the IP FS gateway
running locally on my computer here we
can see that data is available and then
this is the public IP FS gateway on the
internet and there it is
so that that's I think mainly what I
want to show you with the CLI and I hope
you can see there's a lot of potential
there one thing to remember Andrew
mention it early is that earlier is that
the COI is just built on our go client
library it's just part of our the power
gate repo and that client library is
just built on G RPC definitions that are
in the repo so there's a lot of
flexibility in the stack you know you
anybody could build a new client in any
language that supports G RPC and anyone
wanting to build or integrate power gate
into a go application can use the
existing go client same one the CLI is
built on so just for a little
inspiration here this is a project to be
probably seeing some screenshots of
already but we're working with the
protocol labs on using power gate as the
API to drive this awesome file client
web UI front-end
I'll leave most the details to pooja for
her lightning talk later when she
presents more on this but just real
quick you can see how some of these
concepts map really nicely to power gate
like the idea of a user profile Maps
cleanly to an ffs instance and within a
single ffs instance you have your wallet
addresses that are managed by that
single instance you have the files in
their their storage status that are
managed by a single ffs instance
information about file coin deals and so
on so we're really excited to see we
that project goes it's it's been great
to work on and that's all I've got so
back to Heather thanks Aaron I think
we're almost out of time but let me just
I guess just wrap this up very quickly
so Aaron showed you a lot of things and
showing it over a CLI you had to move
through it sort of slowly so I hope you
got it all but just to kind of recap
because I'm so excited about how much is
packed into this pretty little thing it
seems but file coins storage deal
management per user configurations for
all your users power gates got it
IP FS and file coin interoperability
power gates got it doc horizon API
driven I hope you're seeing the trend
widely supported and typed api's I wish
there was like feedback from this
audience per user per file control
storage caching of lifetime deal
availability yeah okay so long term
management of unfreeze repair and renew
pow-pow-pow okay cool
and a beautiful open-source UI that
people are building on top of it already
yeah you've got it so I wanted I would
leave you with that but I just want to
mention one last thing because when
we've been building the power gate we've
been getting really excited about what
kind of implementations could be on top
of it and we're really building it so
that you can pick it up and adopt it and
one of the ways that we're testing that
is trying to run it in in in an
infrastructure like textiles and
particularly focusing on if we can make
systems like the buckets protocol and
the threads DB protocol actually run on
a power gate and so we'll have a lot
more information about that soon but
that's that's kind of the exciting
direction that we're going is letting
users actually have their own data sets
in a thread for example and put their
own storage configurations right in that
thread and then the power gate can
execute it for them and this is where
painting services could come in and be
doing some really epic things on top of
that so hopefully you'll pick it up and
try it out and you'll be in really good
company there's already people that are
kicking the tires and checking out that
code like I said it's early so just work
with us and and get in there and give us
pull requests and try this stuff out and
and and
like I said a few times we would just
love to know your use cases and figure
out what things we need to be building
for exactly so that you can run this
thing and join file coin with your
pending service with your application
whatever you want to run and so then
I'll leave you probably view with that
and I will I'll share these slides as
well of course but thank you very much